{{Infobox group
| name = Akura Golds
| introduced = Wintersteel
}}

''See also: [[Akura Golds Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Akura]] [[Golds]] are members of the [[Akura clan]] who possess gold-level strength. They serve as representatives for their family and the [[Sage of Twin Stars]], often traveling on floating constructs such as Thousand-Mile Clouds to move through different territories. During conflicts, these individuals are capable of defending themselves and can strike down attackers, though more advanced members of the clan must sometimes step in to protect them from incoming techniques during retreats. While some [[Golds]] have been known to prioritize their own survival over teammates, they generally operate under the authority of the clan's head family. The group includes various ranks, such as Truegolds, and they have been utilized to deliver warnings of impending danger to other clan leaders.}}

== Wintersteel ==
<div class="wv-facts"><div class="wv-facts-head">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div><div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wv-facts-body">
<ul class="wv-fact-list">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-08-wintersteel|The [[Akura Golds]] are being targeted by techniques.<ref name="cradle-08-wintersteel-c19">''Wintersteel'', chapter 19</ref>}}</li>
</ul>
</div></div>

== Bloodline ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|Following the loss of several unknown members, a group of [[Akura]] [[Golds]] placed under [[Lindon]]'s protection began traveling with his party. This group, consisting of a few hundred individuals capable of rising into the sky and arriving on clouds, halted the [[Fallen Leaf School]]'s advance against the exiles. The inhabitants of [[Sacred Valley]] viewed these newcomers as over two hundred and fifty new [[Jades]], and the group utilized specialized techniques or constructs to spy on distant locations. While they were present during certain conversations and assisted the [[Wei clan]] by shipping people to Heaven’s Glory, [[Eithan]]'s specific team of [[Akura]] [[Golds]] eventually abandoned him. To maintain order during transit, the group also worked to prevent unwanted stowaways from boarding their ships.}}

<div class="wv-facts"><div class="wv-facts-head">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">13</span></div><div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed wv-facts-body">
<ul class="wv-fact-list">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|Unknown [[Akura Golds]] were lost in the casualties.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c4">''Bloodline'', chapter 4</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Akura Golds]] are under [[Lindon]]'s protection.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c5">''Bloodline'', chapter 5</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|Two or three hundred [[Akura Golds]] are following the group.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c6">''Bloodline'', chapter 6</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Lindon]] wonders if [[Akura Golds]] are in the valley.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c6" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The arrival of the [[Akura Golds]] stopped the [[Fallen Leaf School]] from pushing the exiles back.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c8">''Bloodline'', chapter 8</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Akura Golds]] are seen as over two hundred and fifty new [[Jades]] by the [[Sacred Valley]] inhabitants.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c8" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Akura Golds]] have techniques or constructs to spy on far-off locations.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c9">''Bloodline'', chapter 9</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Akura Golds]] are present during the conversation.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c10">''Bloodline'', chapter 10</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Akura Golds]] assist the [[Wei clan]] by shipping families or individuals to Heaven’s Glory.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c12">''Bloodline'', chapter 12</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Akura Golds]] arrived on clouds.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c12" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Akura Golds]] are a group of people who can rise into the sky.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c13">''Bloodline'', chapter 13</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Eithan]]'s team of [[Akura Golds]] abandoned him.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c13" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Akura Golds]] prevent unwanted stowaways from boarding [[Akura ships]].<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c15">''Bloodline'', chapter 15</ref>}}</li>
</ul>
</div></div>

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Groups]]
[[Category:Wintersteel]]
[[Category:Bloodline]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle groups]]
