{{Infobox group
| name = Alchemists
| introduced = Of Sea and Shadow
}}

''See also: [[Alchemists Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|Alchemists are members of a highly influential, wealthy, and well-connected [[Guild]]. They are recognized by their distinctive attire, which typically includes stained leather or heavy aprons—often marked with a [[gold crown symbol]]—bulging glass goggles, and gloves. While some practitioners work in specialized environments like warehouses or laboratories, others may be found in various settings across the world. [[The Guild]] is known for its vast reach, with members accepted in nearly every location. The profession encompasses a wide range of specializations. Medical alchemists provide treatments such as intravenous injections, topical creams, and prescribed baths to assist with injuries or enhance physical attributes like strength and reaction time. Other specialists focus on organ processing, storage, and the creation of explosives or dangerous gases. Their technical capabilities include producing complex solutions, pills, and specialized tools like modified pistols with integrated smoking bottles. They are also capable of creating highly potent substances, such as gases that can turn a person inside out. Beyond medicine and chemistry, alchemists function as a significant political and military force. They can mobilize various laborers to act as a private army and utilize specialized tactics involving traps, [[darts]], adhesives, and paralytics to restrain powerful opponents. [[The Guild]] maintains strict internal discipline; members who engage in unauthorized research, such as exhuming bodies, may face severe consequences or exile. While many are dedicated to their craft, some individuals within the profession are noted for being self-interested or prone to personality conflicts that lead to expulsion from the [[Guild]].}}

== Of Shadow and Sea ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Alchemists]] wear glass-eyed masks and long, stained aprons.<ref name="ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea-c8">''Of Shadow and Sea'', chapter 8</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Of Dawn and Darkness ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">3</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The [[Alchemists]] are part of the Independent alliance.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c8">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 8</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The [[Alchemists{{!}}alchemists]] have a fortune that may sway public opinion.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c8" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Alchemists]] perform testing involving potions and injections.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c9">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 9</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Of Kings and Killers ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">3</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|The [[Alchemists{{!}}alchemists]] are one of the four [[Independent Guilds]].<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c4">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 4</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|The [[Alchemists{{!}}alchemists]] are moving, funded by [[Nathanael Bareius{{!}}Bareius]].<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c5">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 5</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|The [[Alchemists{{!}}alchemists]] play a vital support role for the [[Guilds]].<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c6">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 6</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Of Killers and Kings ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[Alchemists]] are a type of Independent.<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c10">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 10</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Elder Empire nav}}

[[Category:Groups]]
[[Category:Of Dawn and Darkness]]
[[Category:Of Kings and Killers]]
[[Category:Of Shadow and Sea]]
[[Category:Of Killers and Kings]]
[[Category:Elder Empire]]
[[Category:Elder Empire groups]]
