{{Infobox character
| name = Arelius Patriarch
| titles = {{spoiler|book=cradle-03-blackflame|[[Arelius Patriarch]]}}
| appears_in = Cradle
| introduced = [[Blackflame (novel)|Blackflame]]
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|The Arelius Patriarch is the leader of the [[Arelius family]], a bloodline with a history spanning thousands of years and multiple continents. The position is held by direct descendants of the family's founder, [[Ozmanthus Arelius]], a legendary figure and renowned [[Soulsmith]] whose crest serves as the house symbol. While the family's original headquarters was located at [[Serpent's Grave]], they eventually moved their base to the capital city of the [[Blackflame Empire]] to remain close to centers of power. The Patriarch holds significant authority within the clan, though family elders possess the ability to restrain them if necessary. [[Gaien Arelius]] is identified as a current Patriarch and an aging [[Truegold]]. His son, [[Cassias]], is the heir to the [[Blackflame]] branch of the family. The role of Patriarch is associated with immense power and unique abilities; members of the bloodline possess specialized physical senses that allow them to perceive the world through sight, sound, and smell rather than spiritual perception. This lineage also includes powerful individuals such as Underlords and Archlords who serve the clan's interests. Historically, the family has utilized spatial tunnels to connect distant holdings, though these connections are infrequent. The leadership of the clan is deeply tied to its ancestral treasures and the legacy left by its original founder.}}

== Blackflame ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-03-blackflame|The [[Arelius Patriarch]] acts on his own whims.<ref name="cradle-03-blackflame-c16">''Blackflame'', chapter 16</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-03-blackflame|The [[Arelius Patriarch]] fled the city before the [[Skysworn]] arrived.<ref name="cradle-03-blackflame-c22">''Blackflame'', chapter 22</ref>}}

== Skysworn ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-04-skysworn|The [[Arelius Patriarch]] appearing unannounced often means he is about to put [[Lindon]] through something dangerous.<ref name="cradle-04-skysworn-c1">''Skysworn'', chapter 1</ref>}}

== Reaper ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|The [[Arelius Patriarch]] has a symbol used on tunnel entrances.<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c11">''Reaper'', chapter 11</ref>}}

== Waybound ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|The [[Arelius Patriarch]] disguised himself as one of his own descendants.<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c4">''Waybound'', chapter 4</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|[[Lindon]] held the gaze of the [[Arelius Patriarch]].<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c9">''Waybound'', chapter 9</ref>}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Blackflame]]
[[Category:Skysworn]]
[[Category:Reaper]]
[[Category:Waybound]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle characters]]
[[Category:Titled characters]]
