{{Infobox character
| name = Behemoth
| appears_in = The Last Horizon
| titles = trump card of the Iron Legion
| abilities = resistance to magic, interact with Subspace
| affiliations = Iron Legion
| introduced = lh-01-the-captain
}}

''See also: [[Behemoth Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-03-the-knight|Behemoths are colossal entities characterized by their immense scale, ranging from the size of cities to planet-crashing monsters. These creatures are defined by a fusion of organic matter and cybernetic components, often constructed from reanimated contrasaurs. They possess a natural resistance to magic and maintain a unique relationship with [[Subspace]], which they can navigate by swimming, hopping, or warping the dimension around them. Physically, they may feature starship-grade armor, massive camera-like eyes, and specialized weaponry such as missile swarms. In combat, Behemoths serve as powerful assets for the [[Iron Legion]], acting as a strategic trump card used to suppress large-scale magical rituals or target mages. They are specifically designed to detect and track significant magical signatures. Despite their utility, they lack precision; they are often deployed for broad objectives like capturing or disabling targets through overwhelming force. Their presence is so significant that they are sometimes associated with catastrophic events or the loss of major military assets.}}

== The Captain ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|The Behemoth serves as a massive trump card for the [[Iron Legion]], consisting of hulking creatures made of metal and flesh that can range from city-sized to large enough to crash through planets. These entities are assembled in shipyards using staggering amounts of resources, often incorporating scavenged dreadnoughts, astral megafauna, and cyborg components like digital brain-chips and metal skeletons. Capable of interacting with [[Subspace]] and resisting magic, a Behemoth can fight a [[Divine Titan]] fist-to-fist, though it may be defeated if five such [[Titans]] combine their strength. While there are perhaps only ten of these beings in the galaxy, they pose immense threats, such as an insectoid variant hunting the [[Galactic Union fleet]] or a target that required [[Raion]] to go all-out in combat.}}

{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|A [[Behemoth]] can be defeated by combining five [[Divine Titans]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c31">''The Captain'', chapter 31</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|The [[Behemoth]] is a hulking beast of metal and flesh.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c31" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|The [[Behemoth]] has city-sized armored plates.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c31" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|Behemoths are created using staggering amounts of resources from the [[Iron Legion]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32">''The Captain'', chapter 32</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|Behemoths are assembled in shipyards using cyborg pieces including metal skeletons and digital brain-chips.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|Most [[Behemoth]] bodies are made from scavenged dreadnoughts.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|[[Behemoth]] bodies are typically formed from astral megafauna.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|Behemoths possess cybernetic pieces, resistance to magic, and interact with [[Subspace]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|[[Behemoth]] sizes vary from the size of cities to being large enough to crash through planets.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|A [[Behemoth]] made from a contrasaur has limbs woven from meat and machine, building-sized camera eyes, and starship armor protecting its vitals.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|The [[Behemoth]] is a trump card of the [[Iron Legion]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|A [[Behemoth]] is a creature that can fight a [[Divine Titan]] fist-to-fist.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c33">''The Captain'', chapter 33</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|There are perhaps ten Behemoths in the entire galaxy.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c34">''The Captain'', chapter 34</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|[[Raion]] went all-out against the [[Behemoth]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c39">''The Captain'', chapter 39</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|An insectoid [[Behemoth]] was hunting the [[Galactic Union fleet]].<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c44">''The Captain'', chapter 44</ref>}}

== The Engineer ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-02-the-engineer|A [[Behemoth]] is a creature that the [[Iron Legion]] made from [[Contrasaurs]].<ref name="lh-02-the-engineer-c9">''The Engineer'', chapter 9</ref>}}

== The Knight ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-03-the-knight|[[Raion]] previously fought the [[Behemoth]].<ref name="lh-03-the-knight-c35">''The Knight'', chapter 35</ref>}}

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=lh-01-the-captain|Some were big enough to crash through planets, while others were “merely” the size of cities.<ref name="lh-01-the-captain-c32" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{The Last Horizon nav}}

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:The Captain]]
[[Category:The Engineer]]
[[Category:The Knight]]
[[Category:The Last Horizon]]
[[Category:The Last Horizon characters]]
[[Category:Iron Legion]]
[[Category:Titled characters]]
[[Category:Dreadbeasts]]
