{{Infobox concept
| name = Elder (The Elder Empire: Sea)
| introduced = Of Sea and Shadow
}}

''See also: [[Elder (The Elder Empire: Sea) Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Elders]] are immensely powerful, immortal entities that possess dominion over fundamental forces such as time, space, knowledge, memory, and the cycle of [[life]] and death. They are capable of instantly generating living flesh and can manipulate reality in ways that surpass human capability. These beings travel between worlds through a [[void]], often pursuing individualistic goals: Ach’magut seeks knowledge, [[Nakothi]] pursues an equilibrium between [[life]] and death, [[Urg’naut]] strives for total nothingness, and [[Tharlos]] seeks change. While they generally operate independently of one another, their collective presence is a constant threat to human civilization, as they often desire the collapse of the Empire. A distinction exists between [[Great Elders]] and their lesser offspring, known as [[Elderspawn]]. [[Great Elders]] like [[Kelarac]] have historically interacted with humanity; [[Kelarac]], for instance, would grant wishes in exchange for valuable items such as blood, sanity, or artifacts. [[The Emperor]] has maintained control over the Empire by utilizing [[Elder power]] to elevate himself above humanity, acting as a stabilizing force against their incursions. Currently, the absence of [[Emperor (Elder Empire)|the Emperor]] has led to increased Elder activity. Various factions interact with these beings: the [[Blackwatch]] studies their biology for defense, Navigators use [[Elderspawn]] as guides to traverse the [[Aion Sea]], and some vessels even attempt to chain or summon [[Elders]] to assist in voyages. Despite these interactions, the [[Elders]] often harbor resentment toward human authority and maintain their own ancient, calculating agendas.}}

== Of Sea and Shadow ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Elders]] are entities that [[Watchmen]] face down.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c10">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 10</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Elders]] can be chained to ships to protect them from [[Elderspawn]].<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c19">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 19</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|Not all [[Elders]] are soul-devouring, grotesque monsters from legends.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c19" />}}

== Of Dawn and Darkness ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Elders]] are powerful entities capable of capsizing entire ships. They possess the ability to manifest as rapidly growing flesh upon walls, a process that can also be used to heal wounds. While they represent a specific type of power found within [[Jerri's Vessel]], they are distinct from the sparks observed by [[Urzaia]]. To manage these beings, specialized chains can be invested to successfully restrain an Elder.}}

{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|Chains can be invested to restrain an Elder.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c2">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 2</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Elders]] can manifest as flesh on walls that grows rapidly and heals wounds.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c6">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The sparks seen by [[Urzaia]] are not Elder.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c7">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 7</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|Elder is a type of power found in [[Jerri's Vessel]].<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c12">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 12</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Elders]] are powerful entities that can capsize ships.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c21">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 21</ref>}}

== Of Kings and Killers ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Elders]] desire the fall of the Empire.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c9">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 9</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Tommison]]'s crew died under mysterious Elder-related circumstances.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c16">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 16</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Calder]] [[Read]] an Elder.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c21">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 21</ref>}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Elder Empire nav}}

[[Category:Concepts]]
[[Category:Of Sea and Shadow]]
[[Category:Of Dawn and Darkness]]
[[Category:Of Kings and Killers]]
[[Category:Elder Empire]]
[[Category:Elder Empire concepts]]
[[Category:Lifeforms]]
