{{Infobox location
| name = Emperor's personal rooms
| introduced = Of Dawn and Darkness
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|Located at the center of the [[Imperial Palace]], [[the Emperor]]'s personal rooms consist of a suite of chambers characterized by extreme wealth and historical significance. The quarters feature polished wood walls, expensive ancient paintings, and a massive bed capable of sleeping ten people. The room is illuminated by [[dragon]]-shaped quicklamps and contains a full bathroom with functional plumbing. Historically, the space served as a private area for [[the Emperor]], though he reportedly lacked true privacy during his reign. The chambers house the [[Optasia]], [[the Emperor]]'s true throne and a central piece of technology. Built into a hidden nook within the walls, this device is connected to a global network of receptors, allowing [[the Emperor]] to monitor and influence the [[Great Elders]] from a distance. The room also contains a private armory where [[the Emperor]]'s weapons and armor are kept in hidden compartments. The physical state of the rooms has been subject to significant change and destruction. At various times, the suite has been covered in organic, fleshy growths resembling gristle, tendons, and skin, making the architecture appear like a living beast. Following battles involving [[Elderspawn]] and intense displays of [[Intent]], the rooms have suffered severe damage, including shattered furniture, peeled floorboards, cracked walls, and torn red carpets. Despite this volatility, the area remains a focal point of power within the massive [[Imperial Palace]] complex.}}

== Of Dawn and Darkness ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The enemy is engaged around [[the Emperor]]’s quarters.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c6">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[The Emperor]]'s chambers have bronze doors.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c10">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 10</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The building housing [[the Emperor]]’s chambers was damaged by a battle with fleshy [[Elderspawn]].<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c14">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 14</ref>}}

== Of Darkness and Dawn ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|The [[Emperor's armor]] and weapons are missing from his chambers.<ref name="ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn-c13">''Of Darkness and Dawn'', chapter 13</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[The Emperor]]'s chambers contain the [[Optasia]].<ref name="ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn-c15">''Of Darkness and Dawn'', chapter 15</ref>}}

== Of Kings and Killers ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Calder]] bursts out of [[the Emperor]]’s chambers.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c11">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 11</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|The [[Emperor's quarters]] are located in the heart of the [[Imperial Palace]].<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c13">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 13</ref>}}

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|“We’ve engaged the enemy around the Emperor’s quarters, ma’am,” the orange-eyed Guard said.<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c6" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Elder Empire nav}}

[[Category:Locations]]
[[Category:Of Dawn and Darkness]]
[[Category:Of Kings and Killers]]
[[Category:Of Darkness and Dawn]]
[[Category:Elder Empire]]
[[Category:Elder Empire locations]]
[[Category:Structures]]
