{{Infobox concept
| name = Enforcer
| introduced = Unsouled
}}

''See also: [[Enforcer Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|An Enforcer is a type of [[sacred artist]] whose spirit is defined by the role of a guardian or protector. These individuals use their [[madra]] to bolster physical attributes, granting them superior strength, speed, and durability compared to others at their same level. This specialization is often represented by a badge featuring a shield icon. [[Enforcers]] utilize various techniques to manipulate their [[madra]] for combat and utility. While many employ full-body techniques to protect and power their entire form, others use specialized movements for speed or concentrated strikes focused on a single blow. Some techniques can even reinforce weapons rather than the user's body. These methods often come with significant physical costs, such as straining muscles, burning bones, or exhausting [[madra]] reserves rapidly. In different social and military contexts, [[Enforcers]] serve diverse functions. They may act as clan protectors, specialized combatants within organized squads, or members of judicial groups like the [[Skysworn]]. Their abilities are versatile enough to include techniques for blocking pain, anchoring themselves to the ground, or facilitating movement through the air.}}

== Unsouled ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|An [[Enforcer]] is a soul type characterized by the shield symbol and uses strength to protect the clan from enemies.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c1">''Unsouled'', chapter 1</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|An [[Enforcer]] is a [[Copper stage]] [[sacred artist]] born to focus [[madra]] into physical strength.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c2">''Unsouled'', chapter 2</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|[[Enforcers]] are a type of practitioner or rank mentioned in relation to combat effectiveness.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c15">''Unsouled'', chapter 15</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|[[Enforcers]] use their [[madra]] to make themselves stronger and their techniques involve strengthening the body.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c20">''Unsouled'', chapter 20</ref>}}

== Soulsmith ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-02-soulsmith|[[Enforcer]] is a role or method of drawing power.<ref name="cradle-02-soulsmith-c4">''Soulsmith'', chapter 4</ref>}}

== Blackflame ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-03-blackflame|The red man was using an [[Enforcer technique]].<ref name="cradle-03-blackflame-c9">''Blackflame'', chapter 9</ref>}}

== Skysworn ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-04-skysworn|[[Enforcer]] is a type of technique used by [[Jai Long]].<ref name="cradle-04-skysworn-c4">''Skysworn'', chapter 4</ref>}}

== Ghostwater ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-05-ghostwater|[[Enforcer]] is a technique used to shorten distance.<ref name="cradle-05-ghostwater-c9">''Ghostwater'', chapter 9</ref>}}

== Bloodline ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Lindon]] gripped an [[Enforcer]] by the neck.<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c7">''Bloodline'', chapter 7</ref>}}

== Waybound ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|The [[Titan]] uses an [[Enforcer technique]].<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c29">''Waybound'', chapter 29</ref>}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Concepts]]
[[Category:Unsouled]]
[[Category:Soulsmith]]
[[Category:Blackflame]]
[[Category:Skysworn]]
[[Category:Ghostwater]]
[[Category:Bloodline]]
[[Category:Waybound]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle concepts]]
[[Category:Titles]]
