{{Infobox concept
| name = Fiend
| introduced = Underlord
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|A Fiend is a creature warped by the Void, existing outside the normal order of reality. This transformation occurs when an individual stays in the [[void]] for too long, causing the environment to corrupt them and break down their connection to the [[Way]] until they become an incomprehensible entity. If this process is not halted by finding a fragment or an [[Iteration]], the individual eventually ceases to exist. [[Fiends]] are categorized by threat levels, such as Class Two, Class Three, or Class Four. While a [[Class Four Fiend]] poses a danger to cities or low-power civilizations, they can still be resisted by strong mortals. Some [[Fiends]] are powerful enough to contend with [[Judges]], and others exist as [[Fiends of Chaos]] trapped within seals. These entities can manifest warped realities, such as environments featuring fleshy trees and distorted gravity. Individual [[Fiends]] exhibit diverse and horrific forms, ranging from demonic figures with horned crowns to transparent, puppet-like constructs or creatures resembling centipedes with human hands. They are known to interact through a brushing of minds rather than traditional conversation and can be found lurking in the darkness between stars or within the [[void]] itself.}}

== Underlord ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-06-underlord|Being broken down by the [[void]] can turn a person into an incomprehensible [[Fiend]].<ref name="cradle-06-underlord-c22">''Underlord'', chapter 22</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Reaper ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|[[The Mad King]] has a [[Fiend]] that echoes his commands.<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c15">''Reaper'', chapter 15</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Threshold: Stories from Cradle ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">4</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Abidan]] define a [[Fiend]] as any creature warped by the Void.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 6</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Fiend]] is an entity that can take the form of a tree made of liquid glass.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|[[Fiends]] can be passed by [[Jek'nan]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The touch of a [[Fiend]] is outside the normal order.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c10">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 10</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|“Come,” the Mad King commanded, and he was echoed by his Fiend.<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c15" />}}
* {{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|“That’s the touch of a Fiend. It’s outside the normal order.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c10" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Concepts]]
[[Category:Underlord]]
[[Category:Reaper]]
[[Category:Threshold: Stories from Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle concepts]]
[[Category:Lifeforms]]
