{{Infobox group
| name = Guild
| introduced = Of Sea and Shadow
}}

''See also: [[Guild Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|The [[Guilds]] are a collection of ten influential organizations that serve as the foundation of the [[Aurelian Empire]]. They operate as a private entity that manages imperial affairs through specialized expertise, often acting as if they exist in a world apart from the general populace. While some view them as essential to the [[Empire]]'s existence, others criticize them for attempting to preserve outdated systems and imperial rule rather than allowing the world to progress. The various [[Guilds]] are led by [[Guild Heads]], and some utilize a [[High Council]] for governance. In certain organizations, leadership is tied to being [[Soulbound]], which may involve bonding with a historical vessel or weapon. Specific [[Guilds]] include: * **[[Consultants]]:** The oldest and most loyal Guild, they have maintained [[Emperor (Elder Empire)|the Emperor]]'s trust for two millennia. They provide guidance and protection to clients, though their dedication is strictly limited to the length of a contract. They are also noted for employing assassins.
* **[[Champions]]:** The second oldest Guild, they were historically tied to the unification of the [[Empire]]. They traditionally select members based on physical strength through violent trials, though the formal Guild is facing dissolution.
* **[[Greenwardens]]:** Formerly known as the Sisters of Peace, this group was established in the seventh century to combat the worship of [[Ach'magut]]. They are considered one of the weaker [[Guilds]] regarding political influence and wealth, but their members are [[Soulbound]] with the ability to heal wounds and restore crops.
* **[[Magisters]]:** A Guild that offers a career path for the well-educated.
* **[[Alchemists]]:** A group involved in specialized professional work.
* **[[Navigators]]:** A group characterized by some as dishonest pirates or con artists. Membership in a Guild can provide significant social advantages, such as access to restricted areas, and high-ranking positions are highly respected. However, the [[Guilds]] face modern challenges, including political pressure from regional governors attempting to create their own versions of these organizations and disruption from groups like the [[Sleepless]] cabal.}}

== Of Sea and Shadow ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[The Guild]] has a new client.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c1">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 1</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[The Guild]] is the only force capable of crossing the [[Aion Sea]] at will.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c3">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 3</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[The Guild]] must provide an official order to release prisoners.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c19">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 19</ref>}}

== Of Dawn and Darkness ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|The [[Navigator]]'s ship belonged to the [[Guild]].<ref name="ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness-c6">''Of Dawn and Darkness'', chapter 6</ref>}}

== Of Darkness and Dawn ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[The Guild]] only has three combat-capable [[Soulbound]].<ref name="ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn-c4">''Of Darkness and Dawn'', chapter 4</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[The Guild]] would likely want the children to stay quiet.<ref name="ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn-c6">''Of Darkness and Dawn'', chapter 6</ref>}}

== Of Killers and Kings ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[Shera]] worked on behalf of the [[Guild]].<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c20">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 20</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|Pardoning [[Lucan]] and [[Shera]] would have split the [[Guild]] against [[Yala]].<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c21">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 21</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[The Guild]] provides care for [[Ayana]].<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c22">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 22</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[The Testament]] is the fastest ship in the [[Guild]].<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c24">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 24</ref>}}

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|“If we had pardoned you both, it would have split the Guild against Yala.<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c21" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Elder Empire nav}}

[[Category:Groups]]
[[Category:Of Sea and Shadow]]
[[Category:Of Dawn and Darkness]]
[[Category:Of Darkness and Dawn]]
[[Category:Of Killers and Kings]]
[[Category:Elder Empire]]
[[Category:Elder Empire groups]]
