'''Reading and the Soulbound''' is one of the magic systems of the Willverse.

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|The magic system revolves around the concept of [[Soulbound]] individuals and their connection to [[Vessels]]. A [[Soulbound]] is a human who borrows powers from entities known as [[Elders]] or [[Kameira]], and these individuals are often associated with powerful objects called [[Vessels]]. During an [[Awakening]] procedure, a [[Soulbound]] person bonds to a [[Vessel]], which serves as a source of power that can be sealed. These [[Vessels]] are entities or internal powers capable of reacting to a person's emotions, communicating through impressions, impulses, and pressure instead of spoken words. While most [[Soulbound]] possess useful powers, identifying a specific individual's [[Vessel]] is considered critical. 

A central component of this system is [[Intent]], a property that can be bound into materials like copper poles or wood. By lending [[Intent]] to an object over time, the item becomes more effective at performing its intended function. Practitioners can focus their [[Intent]] with extreme precision, similar to a scalpel. This is closely linked to the [[technique]] of [[Reading]], which allows a practitioner to focus their mind on an object or sense a ship to strengthen [[Intent]] and ensure the vessel accepts new additions. [[Reading]] can also be used to perceive entities with awareness, such as an [[Elderspawn]], though reading the body of a [[Great Elder]] is something to be avoided. 

The hierarchy of power includes [[Great Elders]], who are massive entities that can blight the weather or haunt islands. It is possible for a mortal man to be bound to the heart of a [[Great Elder]]. While some groups, like the [[Sleepless]], seek to communicate with these beings for wisdom, others have designed techniques specifically to counter the spawn of certain [[Great Elders]]. Using these abilities carries risks; pushing oneself too hard can result in a condition called [[Reader’s burn]], which can persist for months.}}

== Notable items ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Syphren]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Heart of Nakothi]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Tyrfang]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Emperor's crown (The Elder Empire: Sea)]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Emperor's armor]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Spear of Tharlos]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Heart (The Elder Empire: Shadow)]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[shears]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Heart (The Elder Empire: Sea)]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[quicklamp]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Urzaia's black hatchets]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Navigator’s ship]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Emperor's crown (The Elder Empire: Shadow)]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[quicklamps]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Shera's shears]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[Jorin's sword]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Awakened blade (The Elder Empire: Sea)]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[cutlass]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Kelarac’s mark]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[spades]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[spade]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Shera's shear]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[White Sun medallion]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[shadeglasses]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[Bastion’s Vessel]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Awakened weapons]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Imperial artifacts]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[General Teach's sword]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Blackwatch coat]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Syphren, the Whispering Death]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[alchemical charge]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Jerri's Vessel]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[Alchemical munitions]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[paralyzing needles]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[Shera's Vessel]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Blackwatch spikes]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Imperial seal]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[Champion potion]]}} • {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-02-of-dawn-and-darkness|[[emerald (The Elder Empire: Sea)]]}}

[[Category:Magic systems]]
