{{Infobox technique
| name = Read
| introduced = ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[Reading]] is a discipline involving the conscious observation and manipulation of human [[Intent]]. While most people use [[Intent]] subconsciously, [[Readers]] can focus their will to sense the emotional echoes or historical visions embedded within objects and living beings. This ability allows them to perceive an item's creation, its previous uses, or even the specific memories and feelings of a person through touch. The process requires intense concentration, emotional empathy, and openness; for instance, a lack of sensation can prevent a [[Reader]] from functioning. There are different levels and applications of this skill. Standard [[Reading]] allows for investigation, such as uncovering a person's past actions or feelings. [[Active Reading]] is a more advanced and violent technique that involves twisting an object's [[Intent]] to physically transform or [[Awaken]] it, potentially changing its shape or granting it new powers. Some highly skilled [[Readers]] can operate on a massive scale, sensing the [[Intent]] of entire cities or armies rather than just individual items. Being a [[Reader]] carries significant social and physical implications. They are highly valued for roles in crime investigation, weapon crafting, sabotage, and tool making. Due to their unique abilities, they often exist above the law, as mortal judges struggle to control them. However, the practice has risks; attempting to Read the [[Intent]] of [[Elders]] directly can lead to insanity, and overextending one's abilities can cause [[Reader burn]], a condition where the power exceeds the user's physical constitution. While many [[Readers]] use words to focus their thoughts, the ability itself relies on [[Intent]] rather than speech.}}

== Of Sea and Shadow ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Reading]] is a technique used to sense or analyze things.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c11">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 11</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow|[[Reading]] an [[Elder]] artifact can drive [[Readers]] insane.<ref name="ee-sea-01-of-sea-and-shadow-c12">''Of Sea and Shadow'', chapter 12</ref>}}

== Of Shadow and Sea ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea|[[Reading]] is a way to perceive a person's [[Intent]].<ref name="ee-shadow-01-of-shadow-and-sea-c6">''Of Shadow and Sea'', chapter 6</ref>}}

== Of Darkness and Dawn ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn|[[The Emperor]] has the ability to [[Read]] thoughts.<ref name="ee-shadow-02-of-darkness-and-dawn-c12">''Of Darkness and Dawn'', chapter 12</ref>}}

== Of Kings and Killers ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|[[Reading]] is an ability that can be used to see shady backgrounds.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c2">''Of Kings and Killers'', chapter 2</ref>}}

== Of Killers and Kings ==
{{spoiler|book=ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings|[[Reading]] can be used to find the truth.<ref name="ee-shadow-03-of-killers-and-kings-c5">''Of Killers and Kings'', chapter 5</ref>}}

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers|“If the Regents can Read shady backgrounds, I’d say we’re all in trouble.<ref name="ee-sea-03-of-kings-and-killers-c2" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Elder Empire nav}}

[[Category:Techniques]]
[[Category:Of Sea and Shadow]]
[[Category:Of Kings and Killers]]
[[Category:Of Shadow and Sea]]
[[Category:Of Darkness and Dawn]]
[[Category:Of Killers and Kings]]
[[Category:Elder Empire]]
