{{Infobox concept
| name = Reaper
| introduced = cradle-10-reaper
}}

''See also: [[Reaper Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The Reaper, also known as the [[Reaper of Worlds]], is a powerful entity associated with [[Reigan Shen]] and [[Ozriel]]. This figure is characterized by the creation of the Scythe, a weapon of immense darkness and destructive power capable of erasing fragments or culling targets entirely. The Reaper is described as an avatar of destruction and a living weapon, possessing the absorbed memories of an ascended weaponsmith. While some view him as a deranged child with dangerous talents, others recognize his role in managing the burden of taking worlds to fulfill a specific duty. He has been subject to various restrictions, including manacles that act as beacons for the [[Abidan]] and seals placed by [[Makiel]]. The term also refers to the [[Reaper Division]], an organization established to preserve existence by removing threats. This division operates under the authority of the eighth [[Judge]], [[Ozriel]], and reports to the [[Court of Seven]]. Although some within the [[Abidan]] view these Reapers as traitors, the division has a successful track record of delaying or reversing the destruction of numerous worlds. The role of a Reaper involves making difficult judgments regarding [[life]] and death, often working to pull individuals from destruction.}}

== Reaper ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|The [[Judges]] agreed [[Ozmanthus]] should be given the mantle of the [[Reaper]].<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c10">''Reaper'', chapter 10</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|[[Ozriel]] intended to call his new official division of the [[Abidan]] Reapers.<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c13">''Reaper'', chapter 13</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|The [[Reaper]] is identified as the one who has arrived.<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c26">''Reaper'', chapter 26</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|[[Eithan]] unleashes the power of the [[Reaper]].<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c26" />}}

== Dreadgod ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-11-dreadgod|[[Makiel]] placed seals on the [[Reaper]].<ref name="cradle-11-dreadgod-c1">''Dreadgod'', chapter 1</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-11-dreadgod|The [[Reaper]] struck [[Amorenthus]].<ref name="cradle-11-dreadgod-c20">''Dreadgod'', chapter 20</ref>}}

== Waybound ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|[[Yerin]] enters the mentality of the [[Reaper]].<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c20">''Waybound'', chapter 20</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|[[Yerin]] is the apprentice of the [[Reaper]].<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c27">''Waybound'', chapter 27</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-12-waybound|The [[Reaper]] stands over the [[Court of Seven]] like a proud hen.<ref name="cradle-12-waybound-c32">''Waybound'', chapter 32</ref>}}

== Threshold: Stories from Cradle ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The Reaper is the newest member of a group of [[Abidan]] known as the Reapers, an organization whose powers function independently of the [[Way]] and who are generally disdained by others, including those in the [[Wolf Division]]. Sent to [[Threshold]] as a baby by [[Ozriel]], this agent was assigned to reclaim the [[Iteration]] and possesses a base power comparable to a three-star [[Wolf]] with a suggested specialty in stealth. Appearing as a figure of black and white, the Reaper wears black armor, has black hair and eyes with burning white circle irises, and carries a white badge on his chest. During his time on [[Threshold]], the Reaper launched a mental assault on [[Cirian]] and caused strange deviations through his intervention. The ultimate success of [[Lindon]]'s mission will serve to establish the reputation of the Reapers among the [[Abidan]].}}

{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|[[Mercy]]'s armor is the black armor of the Reapers.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The Reapers are a group of [[Abidan]] whose powers do not depend on the presence of the [[Way]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The success of [[Lindon]]'s mission will establish the reputation of the Reapers among the [[Abidan]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 7</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|[[Ozriel]] sent a baby [[Reaper]] to [[Threshold]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]] is an agent assigned by [[Ozriel]] to reclaim the [[Iteration]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]] is a figure of black-and-white with black armor, black hair, and black eyes.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]] has a white badge on his chest and burning white circle irises.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]] is the newest member of the Reapers.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]]'s base power is estimated to be comparable to a three-star [[Wolf]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]]'s specialty is suggested to be stealth.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Reaper]] launched a mental assault on [[Cirian]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The Reapers are considered a bad idea by everyone on the [[Abidan]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c7" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The Reapers are a group disdained by the [[Abidan]] of the [[Wolf Division]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c10">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 10</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|[[Reaper]] intervention creates strange deviations.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c11">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 11</ref>}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Concepts]]
[[Category:Reaper]]
[[Category:Dreadgod]]
[[Category:Waybound]]
[[Category:Threshold: Stories from Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle concepts]]
[[Category:Titles]]
