'''Spellcraft''' is one of the magic systems of the Willverse.

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|Spellcraft is a magical system centered around the [[Aether]], which serves as both a medium and a source of power. Practitioners utilize fundamental skills such as [[Aetheric manipulation]] and [[Aether telekinesis]] to interact with this force. Manipulation is often achieved through the use of symbols, sigils, or formulas. These [[Aetheric sigils]] can be traced by hand, appear as swirling white discs during specific spells, or manifest as glowing markings used for alerts. Furthermore, symbols can be utilized in tools like spinning discs to analyze spells or etched onto stone slabs to facilitate processes such as rebirth. 

Magic can take many forms, ranging from basic techniques to complex spells. For example, pathfinding spells can be used to visualize routes, link to other individuals, or detect enemies, sometimes manifesting as glowing white roads. Other manifestations include invisibility spells that appear as twisting balls of nebulous energy. Specialized disciplines exist, such as [[elementalism]] and sealing and [[binding]] magic; the latter is characterized by being slower than [[elementalism]] and more susceptible to resistance via [[aura]]. 

Progression within the system is marked by levels of wizardry, with [[Archmage]] being a notable rank. An [[Archmage]] is a human woman capable of utilizing large-scale magic and understanding the sharing of [[Aetheric patterns]]. The system is also subject to massive disruptions, such as those caused by major rituals that can twist the sky or cause significant Aetheric occurrences.}}

== Spells ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[Cosmic Path]]}} • {{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|pathfinding spell}} • {{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[Terminus Mundi]]}} • {{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[contract magic]]}} • {{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[Subspace warp]]}}

[[Category:Magic systems]]
