{{Infobox artifact
| name = Starlotus Bud
| introduced = Unsouled
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|The [[Starlotus]] bud is a [[spirit-fruit]] characterized by its striking appearance, featuring pale white petals with pink streaks that appear to be in a state of partial bloom. Its aesthetic is often compared to a [[Remnant]], looking as though it were crafted from light rather than organic matter. While it possesses some medicinal and herbal qualities, these are considered low-grade; its primary value lies in its potent spiritual power. [[Consuming]] the bud directly provides a significant boost to an individual's [[madra]] base. It is highly recommended for talented [[Copper]]-stage disciples to assist in their [[advancement]] to the [[Iron stage]], and it has the potential to facilitate an immediate breakthrough into the [[Copper]] realm. Because of its concentrated [[aura]], the fruit can take several days to digest and requires careful management of one's internal energy during consumption. Although it is a powerful tool for [[advancement]], its potency is considered modest when compared to true [[spirit-fruit{{!}}spirit-fruits]].}}

== Unsouled ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">3</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|A [[Starlotus Bud]] is a [[spirit-fruit]] that acts as a miracle for those below the [[Copper stage]] and improves their [[madra]] base.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c18">''Unsouled'', chapter 18</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|The [[Starlotus Bud{{!}}Starlotus bud]] can help [[Lindon]] break through to the [[Copper stage]] almost immediately.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c19">''Unsouled'', chapter 19</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|The [[Starlotus Bud{{!}}Starlotus bud]] is a pale white flower with pink streaks and curled petals.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c20">''Unsouled'', chapter 20</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Soulsmith ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-02-soulsmith|[[Lindon]] cycled a [[Starlotus Bud{{!}}Starlotus bud]].<ref name="cradle-02-soulsmith-c2">''Soulsmith'', chapter 2</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Bloodline ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|A [[Starlotus Bud{{!}}Starlotus bud]] is a [[spirit-fruit]].<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c7">''Bloodline'', chapter 7</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Artifacts]]
[[Category:Unsouled]]
[[Category:Soulsmith]]
[[Category:Bloodline]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle artifacts]]
