{{Infobox group
| name = The Perfected
| introduced = The Engineer
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|The [[Perfected]] are a highly skilled and dangerous group of [[Karoshan{{!}}Karoshans]] who serve as the forces for [[King Regent{{!}}King Regent Felrex]]. They are considered a blight on the galaxy, characterized by their desire to rule and demonstrate superiority. These individuals are created through a costly and horrific process involving magical rituals, alchemical reagents, and the [[sacrifice]] of hundreds or even thousands of other [[Karoshan{{!}}Karoshans]]. This creation method has a low survival rate, but it results in beings that are physically superior to natural [[Karoshan{{!}}Karoshans]]—possessing greater strength, speed, and more effective musculature. They are often specialized with specific titles, such as Duelist, Marksman, or Sniper. Physically, the [[Perfected]] differ from standard [[Karoshan{{!}}Karoshans]] by being slimmer and possessing distinct features like long reptilian tails, sharper teeth, and neon blue hair-cables. They utilize advanced technology and magic, including [[Aethertech]] personal shields and force-blades. Their operations include maintaining dreadnoughts like the [[Dragon’s Edge{{!}}Dragon's Edge]] and conducting research at outposts. Recent intelligence suggests they have shifted their focus toward studying the biology of [[Subspace]] [[inhabitants]] to further improve themselves and are even attempting to create a [[Karoshan]] [[Iron King]].}}

== The Engineer ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">2</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-02-the-engineer|[[Queen Shyrax{{!}}Shyrax]] needs allies to defeat [[The Perfected{{!}}the Perfected]].<ref name="lh-02-the-engineer-c4">''The Engineer'', chapter 4</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-02-the-engineer|[[The Perfected]] is a group or entity that the Captain and [[Queen Shyrax{{!}}Shyrax]] are prepared to face.<ref name="lh-02-the-engineer-c7">''The Engineer'', chapter 7</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== The Knight ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">3</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-03-the-knight|[[The Perfected]] are aware of [[Queen Shyrax{{!}}Shyrax]]'s activities.<ref name="lh-03-the-knight-c5">''The Knight'', chapter 5</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-03-the-knight|[[The Perfected]] are contenders for the [[throne]] of [[Karosha]].<ref name="lh-03-the-knight-c5" />}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-03-the-knight|[[The Perfected]] are an entity that cannot be infiltrated by a secure staging ground.<ref name="lh-03-the-knight-c23">''The Knight'', chapter 23</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== The Pilot ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">2</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[The Perfected]] were attempting to create a [[Karoshan]] [[Iron King]].<ref name="lh-04-the-pilot-c20">''The Pilot'', chapter 20</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=lh-04-the-pilot|[[The Perfected]] are a group whose actions can be attributed to the [[Zenith Devices]].<ref name="lh-04-the-pilot-c23">''The Pilot'', chapter 23</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Notes ==
<references />

{{The Last Horizon nav}}

[[Category:Groups]]
[[Category:The Engineer]]
[[Category:The Knight]]
[[Category:The Pilot]]
[[Category:The Last Horizon]]
[[Category:The Last Horizon groups]]
