{{Infobox concept
| name = Traveler
| introduced = tg-01-house-of-blades
}}

''See also: [[Traveler Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=tg-03-city-of-light|[[Travelers]] are individuals possessing a wide array of diverse and often terrifying powers. They are associated with specific locations known as [[Territories]], such as [[Endross]], [[Helgard]], [[Ornheim]], Ragnarus, [[Avernus]], [[Naraka]], and [[Lirial]]. While some believe the name refers to their ability to move between locations rapidly, not all [[Territories]] support this function. The specific abilities of a Traveler depend on their [[Territory]]; for instance, those from [[Helgard]] or [[Ornheim]] can summon weapons, beasts, or elemental attacks like ice and flame. In contrast, [[Valinhall Travelers]] are specialized for the purpose of killing other [[Travelers]]. Some [[Travelers]] may also serve as guards, though they are sometimes stationed in specific locations as a form of punishment for political errors or incompetence. A Traveler's stability is often precarious due to the stress of existing alongside alien worlds, and many are considered psychologically broken. If a Traveler loses control, they can become an [[Incarnation]], a state that typically only allows for one such entity per [[Territory]] at any given time. [[Travelers]] are often identified by their specific attire, such as the colored robes or unique uniforms associated with their home [[Territories]]. They can vary greatly in appearance, ranging from distinguished individuals to those who appear physically deformed, aged, or battle-worn.}}

== House of Blades ==
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|A Traveler is a specific type of person or role defined by possessing distinguishing secrets and abilities. These entities are capable of being terrifying to encounter, wielding a thousand powers that are mostly gruesome and terrible in nature. To grow, a Traveler must undergo the process of traveling through their own [[Territories]], an act that requires significant risk. While some [[Travelers]], such as those of [[Helgard]] or [[Ornheim]], summon elemental blasts, weapons, or beasts to destroy their enemies, others may use their power to capture people from locations like [[Myria]]. Beyond their combat potential, which [[Simon]] seeks to learn how to fight, [[Travelers]] are suspected by [[Kalman]] of being responsible for certain hauntings and may even own structures like castles with tall towers.}}

{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] are something [[Kalman]] suspects might be responsible for the ghost.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c1">''House of Blades'', chapter 1</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] are entities that can be terrifying to encounter.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c1" />}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|The [[Traveler]] owns a castle with a tallest tower.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c2">''House of Blades'', chapter 2</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] have a thousand powers, most of them gruesome and terrible.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c3">''House of Blades'', chapter 3</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|A [[Traveler]] captured ten people from [[Myria]].<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c5">''House of Blades'', chapter 5</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] are beings that [[Simon]] wants to learn how to fight.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c6">''House of Blades'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] must travel through their own [[Territories]] to grow.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c7">''House of Blades'', chapter 7</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|To Travel requires risking it.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c8">''House of Blades'', chapter 8</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|A [[Traveler]] of [[Helgard]] or [[Ornheim]] summons external things like beasts, weapons, or elemental blasts to destroy enemies.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c9">''House of Blades'', chapter 9</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|A [[Traveler]] is a type of person or role.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c17">''House of Blades'', chapter 17</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|[[Travelers]] possess secrets or abilities that distinguish them.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c17" />}}

== The Crimson Vault ==
{{spoiler|book=tg-02-crimson-vault|[[Petrus]] is a [[Traveler]].<ref name="tg-02-crimson-vault-c23">''The Crimson Vault'', chapter 23</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-02-crimson-vault|[[Travelers]] are considered hostile entities.<ref name="tg-02-crimson-vault-c25">''The Crimson Vault'', chapter 25</ref>}}

== City of Light ==
{{spoiler|book=tg-03-city-of-light|[[Travelers]] can use powers like lightning bolts and fireballs.<ref name="tg-03-city-of-light-c6">''City of Light'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-03-city-of-light|[[Kathrin]] is a highly trained and experienced [[Traveler]].<ref name="tg-03-city-of-light-c16">''City of Light'', chapter 16</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=tg-03-city-of-light|[[Travelers]] in [[Avernus]] live based on tribal affiliations rather than national allegiance.<ref name="tg-03-city-of-light-c18">''City of Light'', chapter 18</ref>}}

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|“Travelers?” Kalman muttered. “Here? This has to be Traveler work.”<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c1" />}}
* {{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|“And Simon’s a Traveler now, apparently.”<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c17" />}}
* {{spoiler|book=tg-01-house-of-blades|“We Travelers have to have our secrets,” Simon said gravely.<ref name="tg-01-house-of-blades-c17" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

[[Category:Concepts]]
[[Category:House of Blades]]
[[Category:The Crimson Vault]]
[[Category:City of Light]]
[[Category:Traveler's Gate]]
[[Category:Traveler's Gate concepts]]
