{{Infobox madra
| name = White Fox
| introduced = cradle-01-unsouled
}}

''See also: [[White Fox Timeline]]''

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The White [[Fox]], or White [[Fox]] [[madra]], is a specialized power used by the [[Wei clan]] of [[Sacred Valley]]. Named after and inspired by a unique three-tailed snowfox, this [[madra]] is composed of the [[aura]] of dreams and light. Its primary function is to deceive the senses through illusions that manipulate light, sound, and perception. While it lacks significant offensive damage, it is highly effective at tricking opponents and creating distractions. The [[Path of the White Fox]] features several distinct combat roles and techniques: * **Forgers:** These practitioners use the [[Fox Mirror technique]] to create realistic, though unsubstantial, copies of themselves or objects. They can also [[construct]] false environments like walls or trees to hide within.
* **[[Enforcers]]:** Utilizing the [[Foxtail]] technique, [[Enforcers]] obscure their physical movements. This makes their strikes appear to have different lengths and their reactions seem unnaturally fast or slow, making them difficult to predict in combat.
* **Strikers:** This role focuses on manipulating foxfire, a purple-and-white flame that cannot be extinguished. While it does not cause physical destruction, it can inflict intense pain or create phantom lights to cloud an enemy's vision.
* **[[Rulers]]:** Rather than manipulating their own energy, [[Rulers]] use their [[madra]] to influence [[vital aura]]. They can employ the [[Fox Dream]] technique to trap enemies within a mental cage. Additionally, specialized boundary formations can be constructed using seven banners to gather light- and dream-aspect [[aura]] for training or obfuscation. The [[Path]] is also noted for its effectiveness in long-distance communication across [[Wei territory]].}}

== Unsouled ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|The [[White Fox]] is a [[madra]] formed from [[aura]] of light and dreams.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c6">''Unsouled'', chapter 6</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|The [[White Fox]] [[madra]] is unrestrained and tricks the senses by its nature.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c6" />}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-01-unsouled|[[White Fox]] [[madra]] can be used to create a coordinated masterpiece.<ref name="cradle-01-unsouled-c8">''Unsouled'', chapter 8</ref>}}

== Underlord ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-06-underlord|Wei Shi [[Kelsa]] uses [[White Fox]] [[madra]].<ref name="cradle-06-underlord-c22">''Underlord'', chapter 22</ref>}}

== Bloodline ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[White Fox]] [[madra]] is a type of [[madra]].<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c8">''Bloodline'', chapter 8</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-09-bloodline|[[Lindon]] uses [[White Fox]] [[madra]].<ref name="cradle-09-bloodline-c11">''Bloodline'', chapter 11</ref>}}

== Threshold: Stories from Cradle ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|A decoy in [[Kelsa]]'s bed feeds on [[White Fox]] [[madra]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c8">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 8</ref>}}
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|[[White Fox]] [[madra]] is used by [[Kelsa]].<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c8" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

[[Category:Madra]]
[[Category:Unsouled]]
[[Category:Underlord]]
[[Category:Bloodline]]
[[Category:Threshold: Stories from Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
