{{Infobox group
| name = Wolf
| introduced = Wintersteel
}}

== Overview ==
{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The term Wolf refers to several distinct entities and organizational structures within the narrative. Most prominently, it identifies a specific division of warriors who utilize specialized combat techniques to bend the [[Way]] and reinforce their physical prowess. These individuals are ranked by stars, such as one-star or three-star [[Wolves]], and possess a unique presence used for communication. Within this division, certain members are noted for their high potential and combat readiness. Individually, [[Razael]] is a figure known as the Wolf who operates as part of a [[Court]]. This entity has engaged in confrontations with others, such as [[Suriel]], and has demonstrated authority over group decisions. The term also describes various monstrous or supernatural beings. Some creatures possess wolf-like physical traits, such as specific maws or ears, and are associated with [[hunger madra]] or the instinctual drive to hunt. These beings can range from terrifying, corpse-like puppets to massive, powerful predators that command respect or fear. Additionally, the name is linked to mythological figures and specific combat styles used by warriors.}}

== Wintersteel ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-08-wintersteel|An [[Abidan]] suggested [[Yerin]] might become a [[Wolf]] someday.<ref name="cradle-08-wintersteel-c28">''Wintersteel'', chapter 28</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Reaper ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">3</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|[[Razael]] is the [[Wolf]].<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c15">''Reaper'', chapter 15</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|The [[Wolf]] was gathering power in her flaming [[sword]].<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c22">''Reaper'', chapter 22</ref>}}</li>
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-10-reaper|[[Eithan]] strikes with the power of the [[Wolf]].<ref name="cradle-10-reaper-c26">''Reaper'', chapter 26</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Dreadgod ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-11-dreadgod|The [[Wolf]] is a [[Judge]] with fiery hair.<ref name="cradle-11-dreadgod-c1">''Dreadgod'', chapter 1</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Threshold: Stories from Cradle ==
<div class="wv-facts mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"><div class="wv-facts-head mw-collapsible-toggle">Sourced facts <span class="wv-facts-count">1</span></div>
<ul class="wv-fact-list mw-collapsible-content">
<li>{{spoiler|book=cradle-13-threshold|The [[Wolf]] wears pure white armor and has eyes that blaze scarlet.<ref name="cradle-13-threshold-c6">''Threshold: Stories from Cradle'', chapter 6</ref>}}</li>
</ul></div>

== Notable quotes ==
* {{spoiler|book=cradle-08-wintersteel|"No doubt you'll be a Wolf yourself someday."<ref name="cradle-08-wintersteel-c28" />}}

== Notes ==
<references />

{{Cradle nav}}

[[Category:Groups]]
[[Category:Wintersteel]]
[[Category:Reaper]]
[[Category:Dreadgod]]
[[Category:Threshold: Stories from Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle]]
[[Category:Cradle groups]]
