<!-- seeded-by-willverse-pipeline: remove this line to stop pipeline updates -->
= About the Willverse Wiki =

This wiki is a community-editable encyclopedia for Will Wight's connected universe, initially
'''seeded by a local pipeline that reads the books''' and extracts entities, facts, and links —
then handed to human editors as the living source of truth.

== The two promises ==

=== 1. Per-series spoiler safety ===

Every fact is tagged with the book that reveals it. The spoiler selector (top of each article)
tracks your reading progress '''independently per series''' — set Cradle to book 3 and the
Elder Empire to "not started", and each page shows exactly what you've earned. This works
because facts, Overviews, biographies, and timeline entries are all gated at the level of
individual statements, not whole pages.

=== 2. Verbatim grounding ===

A seeded fact reaches this wiki only if:
# its supporting quote appears '''word-for-word''' in the referenced chapter (checked mechanically — a quote that isn't verbatim is rejected);
# an independent verification pass agrees the quote actually supports the claim (overreaching claims are quarantined);
# it isn't a near-duplicate of an already-recorded fact.

Prose sections (Overviews, per-book biographies, plot summaries) are '''original summaries'''
written strictly from verified material — never copied from the books and never quoting them
beyond short, verified excerpts. Publication data is drawn from public bibliographic sources
and cited on each book page.

== What the pipeline does and doesn't do ==

* It '''creates and updates''' seeded pages under a bot account.
* It '''never bulk-deletes pages and never overwrites human edits''' — after seeding, editors own the content.
* Book text stays on the operator's machine; the wiki carries fair-use summaries and short cited quotes only.

== Editing ==

Edit anything. Keep the two promises: don't remove spoiler tags (readers depend on them), and
don't add claims the books can't support. Beyond that — expand, restructure, illustrate, and
analyze as any wiki community would.

[[Category:Meta]]
